The Church of Our Lady in Red is a religious organization devoted to [[Cardalia]] Based in [[Monolith (Country)|Monolith]] and [[Nauuis Kingdom]].

Previously just a Nauuis organization, The Church has greatly expanded after moving their main operation to Monolith and getting the blessing of Monolith itself to continue their work there. The Church has 3 main functions - Spreading the new teachings of Cardalia, giving aid to the poor and sick, and restoring balance to nature.

The Church has many churches throughout Monolith and Nauuis, and a few outside the two nations. These churches are exclusively in major population centers - the Church uses these churches as training points for their clergy, storage for Church owned equipment, and places of worship. The clergy of the Church are trained in their religion, but also in first aid, wilderness survival, combat, and a variety of other skills the Church believes they can use to help others. The clergy are then mostly sent to patrol the land the Church oversees. The average clergy member serves as a combination of traveling preacher, doctor, guardsman, and mailman. They are often sent with a large amount of preserved food, intended both to give to the hungry and as their meals while on the road.

The Church considers the balance of nature to be paramount. They regularly find imbalances through revelations from Cardalia - When this happens, they send out either their own clergy or, more rarely, contracted mercenaries to deal with whatever is causing the issue. The issues the church deals with range from an invasive species getting in the way of the local wildlife, to an out of control mage damaging the ecosystem, to a business illegally cutting down trees. This practice has been criticized after a couple of incidents in which people's lives were ruined by the Church over what seemed to be minor issues. The Church has not helped matters by refusing to comment.