The Order of the Golden Mask is a religious organization devoted to [[Oros]] based in [[Nauuis Kingdom|Nauuis]].

The Order is a major power among the [[Nauu]], estolling the virtues of art that Nauu society holds dear. Outside of being an authority on Oros' faith, the Order has 3 main functions - management of the Golden Library in [[Vei]], running churches in population centers, and sponsoring talented individuals.

The Order's churches are rather unconventional - Fitting, for a god as unconventional as Oros. Churches always have a main meeting hall, used for the occasional sermon or ceremony for special occasions, like a major holiday or wedding. Outside of this meeting hall, there are usually at least two rooms specifically for art - one for creation, and one for display. Particularly small churches may combine the two rooms, while large churches may have multiple rooms for different types of art. Finally, there is usually a small library, with a combination of Oros' holy texts and other books.

The Order's sponsorship program is their method of giving skilled artists without the money to follow their dreams a chance to create great things. The Order runs regular contests in a variety of fine arts where they provide the materials to allow anyone to participate - those who particularly impress the church are given an opportunity to become the apprentice of a great artist and funding to help them get started in their art career.
Some accusations of bias have been made toward the judges of the contests in the past couple of years. The Order is currently looking into the matter, but are being weighed down by the bureaucracy of a centuries old system.

The Golden Library could be called the child of the Order. A massive structure, intended to hold every book ever written, the Library grows regularly both above ground and below. Constant renovations mean that some section of the Library is always off limits to visitors.
The Order takes the safety of their books extremely seriously. After a fire damaged and destroyed a number of books around a century ago (adddate), the Order has placed a great number of enchanted devices in the Library, commissioned from [[Anske|Ansk]] Mages. These devices are designed to simultaneously kill all nearby fire and provide light for visitors. The Order also places a great number of Library Guards in and around the Library, ready to apprehend any who may threaten the books contained within.
The Library also has a substantial museum section upstairs, holding most of the artwork the Order has collected or commissioned.