Oros falls on the axis of Chaos and Knowledge.
They were the designer of [[Nauu]].

Oros is the god of stories, white lies, art, beauty. They are worshipped by those who wish to create art of any kind, those who wish to have influence in society, those who wish to be part of something greater than themselves, and the Kingdom of [[Nauuis Kingdom|Nauuis]]. As a god of chaos, their teachings are relatively loose, consisting mostly of stories and parables.

Oros gives power through an unusual system. When a worshipping artist of any kind impresses Oros, they can be granted a charm. Charms usually manifest on something directly related to the art that granted it. A painter may have a boon on a paintbrush they used, a dancer on a scarf they wore, a sculptor on a fragment of marble chipped off of their statue, or similar such things. The charm never manifests on a living thing or on the art itself. Charms can be used in rituals to grant small powers to places, things, or people. Common choices include a pan that food never sticks to, hair that always falls the right way, a house that's always the right temperature, slightly improved eyesight, or other such things. Oros hates the idea of these boons being used for things they did not intend, and does not hesitate to retract boons they feel are being abused.

Oro's demigods are wildly inconsistent. They all take after characters from various stories, but many of the stories they claim to take after have not been written yet, or were forgotten long ago, and many of the characters they take after were minor side characters in their stories, forgettable and barely elaborated on. These demigods, when encountered, tend to reward those who treat the encounter like a story, taking actions or saying things that would not make sense normally to play a part. Oro's demigods are usually referred to as the Fae.